---
title: "Never quit on a bad day"
date: 2025-02-18T20:36:38+01:00
categories: ["Babble"]
draft: true
---

Have been having quite tough times at work lately, and today is the first day in like a few weeks where I feel like, okay, I can do this. 

I just can't help but remember what Nastia Liukin's mom said to her: 

>> never, ever quit on a bad day. 

What a good lesson.  

Today I actually witnessed my boss having a downright terrible day, 6-feet-guy borderline crying kinda day. It just reminds me that everyone has those days, and it's much worse for my bosses, given that they shoulder so much more responsibilities.

Rewatching some of Casey Neistat's videos, and really took a liking of his tattoos. One of which is "Do More". The other one is 

>> always be closing

I had to google it to understand the meaning, but it's basically about being aggressive in sales. It's also about finishing something. It's so easy to start, but properly, cleanly, adequately finish something is really what counts. 

On the way home today I was listening to a podcast by Leila Hormozi. The host was asking her, as a woman in business, if she has any advice to give to other women. What she said was inspiring: if it's not a helpful thought, why hold on to it? Yes, factually maybe there are disadvantages to being a woman, to being an immigrant, but you also have advantages. Why not just leverage the advantages to the maximum possible? 

If it's not a helpful thought, why hold on to it? 

I respect the diversity narrative, and understand where the social justice warriors are coming from. But this is not a helpful thought. 

One more lesson that she inspired me, is about finding the right partner. Leila has always thought herself as weird, someone who enjoys working, ambitious, wanting to keep busy. All the dates she has been on have been incompatible in this sense. Yes a leisurely stroll. A nice dinner. That is, until she met her husband Alex, and they talked about work the whole time on their first date. From that moment, she learned that there is nothing wrong with her, just need to find the right kind of people. 


